---
layout: post
title: "Reading"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### Programming books

Programming books can be a challenging read, but they're worth it.   When you're picking up new technologies every year or two, it's important to sit down for a few hours and try to learn some new skills and concepts.  One of the best things about programming as a skill is that there is a wealth of good books on a bunch of interesting concepts.   Many programming books are my favourite books, period.  
One of the biggest difference between good and bad programmers is that good programmers manage to pull this off.  They are constantly adding tools to their tool belt.   A good programmer has read more books than you in the past 12 months, and has acquired more unread books than you have the in the last 3 years.  


### A good programmer is a hunter

Programmers are like hunters, but instead of hunting gazelles, or searching for mates, we are hunting for a particularly rare and valuable piece of knowledge.  We tear through stackoverflow posts, blog posts, books, and (hopefully not) forums.  We interrogate our friends.  A good programmer will buy a book just to read one chapter, in hopes that it helps him along in his quest for knowledge.  I often find myself up late at night, just googling the same phrases over and over again, hoping to find a hint or a clue.  My programmers intuition, crafted over 8 years of solving problems, always telling me that my current solution just isn't good enough.

Half the time, our search fails, and looking back, we were often looking for something else entirely.  Usually, in hindsight, the question was wrong.  


### It's not fun for us either

If you want to know if you are cut out to be a programmer, grab a programming book like Agile Web Development with Rails and follow the exercises along on the computer.  By the end of the book, you'll have created a small web application and have a good knowledge of the Rails API.  






