---
layout: post
title: "Gym buddy"
description: ""
category:
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

My new favourite app, [Strong](//http://strongapp.me/), is a great example of how important iOS 7's design refresh was important to end users: it set's a reasonable design precedent for 3rd party app developers.  Skeuomorphism is all well and good when you have apples design and engineer teams on it - but if you want to see the aesthetic fall down miserably, just try a few weight lifting apps.  I'm using Strong primarily to follow a [cutting plan](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bodybuilding#Cutting_and_bulking).

Cutting plans are interesting, but not much talked about outside of the professional and amateur body building community - even though it's a valid weight loss strategy that I think most people with weight loss goals could benefit from.  The idea behind cutting is that lose weight by restricting your calories but you simultaneous take steps to attempt to reduce the amount of muscle mass that you will inevitably lose in the process - weight lifting, protein intake, reduced cardio.  A few benefits of this approach are: weight lifting can be done less frequently and is less tedious than cardio - and as you progress, you can see more significant overall physique changes within a short period of time than merely running.


> You only have to follow three simple rules:
>
> - Workout 3 times a week with weights.
> - Eat 1g protein / lb lean body mass.
> - Reduce calories to lose 1-2 lbs / week.
>
> Success is 100% guaranteed.
> @wave_length, bodybuilding [@wave_length, forums.bodybuilding.com](http://forum.bodybuilding.com/showthread.php?t=129247741).
